
    CS 146    - Assignment: 1
    Professor - Vidya Rangasayee
    Student   - Alvin Dang
    Date      - 9/20/2023
 

Algorith Description: -----------------------------------------------

My algorithm was designed to read a text file and search for an array
of names.

It works by reading each line of the text file and parsing it in 
search of the desired names. When a name is found, it then outputs 
the line the name was found on, the starting character position, and 
the name found.

My algorithm uses the 'BufferedReader' class. I chose this specific
class as it buffers the input data, which I believe is very efficient
way to read large bodies of text.

In the event that a name is spread across multiple lines, the algorithm
merges the last word of the previous line with the current line. 
Furthermore, in the event that a name follows a punctuation mark, the 
algorithm adjusts the position of the name to correctly suit its logical 
position.

Overall, my algorithm has a time complexity of O(nm), where n is the
number of lines in the given text file and m is the length of the
longest desired name.

Algorithm Scalability: ----------------------------------------------

My algorithm scales linearly with respect to the number of lines in
the text file. Meaning as the text file becomes larger, the algorithm
would also take a longer amount of time (ms) to run. Nonetheless, I
believe my algorithm is equipped to handle larger text files. Given
there is enough available memory to store the file.

My algorithm should continue to scale linearly even when considering 
how well it would scale with respect to the number and lengths of the 
names to search. Meaning just like before, the more names and the longer
they are, then the longer the algorithm will take to run.

With all that said, a linearly scaling algorithm is one that can likely
be improved upon. I have no doubt that optimization of the algorithm or 
the use of a completely different algorithm with better time complexity
would be required for excessively large text files.